Add Pioneer DDJ SB3 documentation (#379)
mixxxdj/manual: source/hardware/controllers/pioneer_ddj_sb3.rst

   :alt: Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (schematic view)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

   Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (schematic view)

The Pioneer DDJ-SB3 is a 4 deck USB DJ controller.

-  `Manufacturer's Product Page <https://www.pioneerdj.com/en-us/product/controller/ddj-sb3/black/overview/>`__
-  `Manufacturer's User Manual <https://docs.pioneerdj.com/Manuals/DDJ_SB3_DRI1533A_manual/>`__
-  `Manufacturer's Firmware Update <https://www.pioneerdj.com/en-us/product/controller/ddj-sb3/black/support/>`__
-  `Mixxx User Forum <https://mixxx.discourse.group/t/ddj-sb3/18346>`__

.. versionadded:: 2.3.0

Audio Setup
-----------

The mapping relies on the following channel assignments:

===================== ================
Output Channels       Assigned to
===================== ================
1-2                   Master
3-4                   Headphones
===================== ================

This controller mapping does not support any inputs. The controller itself has a microphone input, but that cannot be controlled via MIDI.

Controller Mapping
------------------

A schematic drawing with the control numbers that are used here can be found on the specified page in the User Manual in the Links section.

> .. _pioneer-ddj-SB3-decks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _pioneer-ddj-sb3-decks:
```

Author: This has been fixed

2    Jog Wheel (top)                                    Pitch bend (nudge)
2    :hwlabel:`VINYL` + Jog Wheel (top)                 Scratch (move play position)
2    Jog Wheel (outer)                                  Pitch bend (nudge)
2    :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Jog Wheel (top)                 Fast-forward or fast reverse track
3    :hwlabel:`HOT CUE`                                 Set hot cue mode
3    :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`HOT CUE`              Set BEAT JUMP mode
4    :hwlabel:`FX FADE`                                 Set FX fade mode
4    :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`FX FADE`              Set roll mode
5    :hwlabel:`PAD SCRATCH`                             Set pad scratch mode
5    :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`PAD SCRATCH`          Set slicer mode
6    :hwlabel:`SAMPLER`                                 Set sampler mode
6    :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`SAMPLER`              Set trans mode
7    :hwlabel:`VINYL`                                   Toggle vinyl mode
7    :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`VINYL`                Toggle slip mode

> 8    :hwlabel:`AUTO LOOP`                               Toggle auto loop

Author: I've added documentation for all the available modes.

8    :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`AUTO LOOP`            Cancel loop or reloop
9    :hwlabel:`2X`                                      Double loop length
10   :hwlabel:`1/2X`                                    Halve loop length
11   Pad 1 - 8                                          Perform different functions depending on current mode
12   :hwlabel:`PLAY/PAUSE` button                       Play / pause

> 12   :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`PLAY/PAUSE` button    Return to temporary cue point

Reviewer: I think this function should be on SHIFT + CUE instead, then you could use SHIFT + PLAY for censoring.

Author: These are the original (OOB) mappings for the controller.

2    :hwlabel:`HI`/:hwlabel:`MID`/:hwlabel:`LOW` knobs      Adjust high/mid/low-frequencies
3    :hwlabel:`FILTER` knob                                 Low pass / high pass filter for each channel
4    :hwlabel:`HEADPHONE CUE 1` button                      Toggle headphone pre-fader listening of left deck.
4    :hwlabel:`HEADPHONE CUE 2` button                      Toggle headphone pre-fader listening of right deck.
5    Channel faders                                         Adjust the output level for each channel
6    Cross fader                                            Fade between left and right deck
7    :hwlabel:`MASTER` knob                                 Adjust master output level
8    :hwlabel:`HEADPHONES` knob                             Adjust headphones output level
9    :hwlabel:`MASTER` button                               Output master to headphones
===  =====================================================  ============================================================================================

Performance Pads
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the Pad Mode Select buttons to select a mode for the

> performance pads. Performance pads are numbered from top left to bottom right. First row is 1-4 and the second row is 5-8.

Reviewer: Is there only a single pad mode available? If so, this paragraph is misleading because you can't actually select pad modes other than "Hot Cue Mode". If you can select other modes, please document them, too.

Author: You're right, there are other modes. I will add those as well.

Author: I have added additional documentation for the missing modes.

Hot Cue Mode
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/pioneer_ddj_sb3_hotcue.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 65%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (performance pads)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

   Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (performance pads)

Bookmark positions in the track and jump to them.

========  ===============================================================  ==========================================
No.       Control                                                          Function
========  ===============================================================  ==========================================
1-4       Pad (unlit)                                                      Save current position as hot cue.
1-4       Pad (lit)                                                        Jump to hot cue.
1-4       :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Pad (lit)                                     Clear hot cue.

> 5         Pad                                                              Previous track

Reviewer: What does this mean?

Personally, I think it would be better if you mapped 8 hotcues instead.

Author: That is the default "OOB" mapping, which matches the Pioneer manual. Does it matter if the mapping is not the "original" or is the 8 hotcue more common? I know there's a fork/branch with an alternative 8 hotcue mapping.

Reviewer: Okay, if it machte the original mapping then it makes sense to map it the same in Mixxx. If someone needs 8 hotcues, that person can open a PR to make this configurable.

Author: These are the original (OOB) mappings for the controller.

Reviewer 2: I still don't think this is a good idea. The out of the box mapping is limited to 4 hotcues because Serato DJ Lite is restricted to that. Mappings should not inherit the design decisions from serato whos only purpose is too "persuade" people into spending money on their Pro version.

Reviewer 3: I agree with @Swiftb0y, imitating other software verbatim is an antipattern, especially copying artificial restrictions. Please change this.

6         Pad                                                              Search left

> 7         Pad                                                              Search right

Reviewer: Seeking inside a track is usually done with the jog wheel, not pads.

Author: These are the original (OOB) mappings for the controller.

> 8         Pad                                                              Censor

Reviewer: Censor would be more intuitive if it was on SHIFT±PLAY.

Author: These are the original (OOB) mappings for the controller.

Pioneer DDJ-SB3
===============

.. sectionauthor::
   Javier Vilalta <javier at dancephy.com>

.. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/pioneer_ddj_sb3.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (schematic view)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

   Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (schematic view)

The Pioneer DDJ-SB3 is a 4 deck USB DJ controller.

-  `Manufacturer's Product Page <https://www.pioneerdj.com/en-us/product/controller/ddj-sb3/black/overview/>`__
-  `Manufacturer's User Manual <https://docs.pioneerdj.com/Manuals/DDJ_SB3_DRI1533A_manual/>`__
-  `Manufacturer's Firmware Update <https://www.pioneerdj.com/en-us/product/controller/ddj-sb3/black/support/>`__
-  `Mixxx User Forum <https://mixxx.discourse.group/t/pioneer-ddj-sb3-mapping-v1-0-now-available/22186>`__

.. versionadded:: 2.3.2

Audio Setup
-----------

The mapping relies on the following channel assignments:

===================== ================
Output Channels       Assigned to
===================== ================
1-2                   Master
3-4                   Headphones
===================== ================

> This controller mapping does not support any inputs. The controller itself has a microphone input, but that cannot be controlled via MIDI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This controller mapping does not support any inputs. The controller itself has a microphone input, but that cannot be controlled via MIDI or routed to the computer.
```

Pioneer DDJ-SB3
===============

.. sectionauthor::
   Javier Vilalta <javier at dancephy.com>

.. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/pioneer_ddj_sb3.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (schematic view)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

   Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (schematic view)

The Pioneer DDJ-SB3 is a 4 deck USB DJ controller.

-  `Manufacturer's Product Page <https://www.pioneerdj.com/en-us/product/controller/ddj-sb3/black/overview/>`__
-  `Manufacturer's User Manual <https://docs.pioneerdj.com/Manuals/DDJ_SB3_DRI1533A_manual/>`__
-  `Manufacturer's Firmware Update <https://www.pioneerdj.com/en-us/product/controller/ddj-sb3/black/support/>`__

> -  `Mixxx User Forum <https://mixxx.discourse.group/t/ddj-sb3/18346>`__

Author: Which link should this point to? There are a couple of threads open for this mapping.

> -  `Mixxx User Forum <https://mixxx.discourse.group/t/ddj-sb3/18346>`__

Reviewer 2: Prefer the most recent one that was made by you specifically for this mapping. If there is no such thread, create one.

3-4                   Headphones
===================== ================

This controller mapping does not support any inputs. The controller itself has a microphone input, but that cannot be controlled via MIDI.

Controller Mapping
------------------

A schematic drawing with the control numbers that are used here can be found on the specified page in the User Manual in the Links section.

.. _pioneer-ddj-sb3-decks:

Deck section (p. 6)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/pioneer_ddj_sb3_decks.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 65%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (deck section)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

   Deck section (p. 6)

===  =================================================  ============================================================================================
No.  Control                                            Function
===  =================================================  ============================================================================================
1    :hwlabel:`TEMPO` slider                            Adjust track playing speed (can be adjusted via :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`BEAT SYNC`)

> 2    Jog Wheel (top)                                    Pitch bend (nudge)
> 2    :hwlabel:`VINYL` + Jog Wheel (top)                 Scratch (move play position)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2    Jog Wheel (top)                                    Pitch bend (nudge) or scratch when vinyl mode is enabled
```

The way this is written had me concerned that scratching only worked with the vinyl button held down.

===  =====================================================  ============================================================================================
1    :hwlabel:`TRIM` knob                                   Adjust individual channel output gain
2    :hwlabel:`HI`/:hwlabel:`MID`/:hwlabel:`LOW` knobs      Adjust high/mid/low-frequencies
3    :hwlabel:`FILTER` knob                                 Low pass / high pass filter for each channel
4    :hwlabel:`HEADPHONE CUE 1` button                      Toggle headphone pre-fader listening of left deck.
4    :hwlabel:`HEADPHONE CUE 2` button                      Toggle headphone pre-fader listening of right deck.
5    Channel faders                                         Adjust the output level for each channel
5    :hwlabel:`SHIFT` Channel faders                        Fader start and adjust the output level for each channel
6    Cross fader                                            Fade between left and right deck
7    :hwlabel:`MASTER` knob                                 Adjust master output level
8    :hwlabel:`HEADPHONES` knob                             Adjust headphones output level

> 9    :hwlabel:`MASTER` button                               Output master to headphones

Reviewer 3: Do these affect the hardware's audio interface or Mixxx's software knobs? Please document that. https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/wiki/Contributing-Mappings#main--headphone-gain-knobs

Author: I'm not sure how to answer this. The controller does send MIDI messages when the knobs are moved. The volume changes regardless of whether you move the knob or the software button. I think the answer is both but you'll have to let me know what needs documenting. Is there an example?

Reviewer 3: If they change the volume of the audio interface they should not be mapped as described on the wiki.

Author: So if I turn the knob on the controller, it's ok if the knob doesn't move on the screen? Just want to confirm I understand.

Reviewer 2: Yes, otherwise you would change two gain stages with a single knob (the software gain in mixxx and the hardware gain on the controller) with a single knob. That usually makes it very hard to actually control the gain because the double scaling makes it very sensitive.

   :width: 65%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (performance pads trans mode)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

   Pioneer DDJ-SB3 (performance pads in trans mode)

   ========  ===============================================================  ==========================================
   No.       Control                                                          Function
   ========  ===============================================================  ==========================================
   1         Pad                                                              1/16 beat cut effect
   2         Pad                                                              1/8 beat cut effect
   3         Pad                                                              1/4 beat cut effect
   4         Pad                                                              1/2 beat cut effect
   5         Pad                                                              1 beat cut effect
   6         Pad                                                              2 beat cut effect
   7         Pad                                                              1/3 beat cut effect

>    8         Pad                                                              Manual cut effect

Reviewer 3: What does this mean?

Author: When you press and hold down the pad in this mode, the fader for that channel gets set to min and max at that rate. So, every beat it sets the fader from max to min and so on with the beat. It's a controller built-in feature.

Author: Here's what it looks like. I've seen it called a cut effect
![cut effect](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/55333625/147422108-7ecdd2d3-4a62-495f-8fec-f377e5f339ed.gif)
.

Reviewer 3: Please describe that in the manual; that's not obvious or common knowledge.

Author: updated the description, lmk if it needs more work
